senior citizen to the people who stay
active by playing shuffleboard going on
walks or performing their hit song I
can't get no satisfaction in front of
packed arenas around the world many
senior citizens remain active and
independent like this woman who CNN
interviewed when she was a hundred and
four and who shared her secret for good
health
are you drinking dr. pepper right now
she's exactly what this stuff is good
it's got sugar in it and three two
doctors have told me that if I drink it
I will die but they died first did you
kill those two doctors cause he seemed
awfully proud of that fact I'm not
saying that you did it I'm just saying
serial killers always want recognition
for their crimes now we currently have a
lot of senior citizens right now over 49
million Americans are 65 and older and
that number is expected to sharply
increase in a democratic surge that some
have called the silver tsunami which is
also apparently the nickname that
Christopher Plummer goes by and his
underground cage fighting ring he's 57
and oh if you get caught in the silver
tsunamis Floria fists you're waking up
in the hospital but the truth is not
everyone is going to remain as sharp and
self-sufficient in their old age as that
murderer laughing at her dead doctors
unavoidably some of us are going to wind
up needing extra care and that could
place as an assistant called
guardianship and I'll let a Maryland
judge explain it to you as a camera
pushes relentlessly into his face a
guardian is someone appointed by the
court who act on behalf of an individual
who is under a mental or physical
disability and as a result is unable to
make responsible decisions about his or
her care or property he's right and you
should know that zoom wasn't actually
planned the cameraman was just so taken
by the judges animal magnetism he
couldn't resist moving in closer and
closer the phone was shot was just the
camera pressed up against his mustache
but the fact the fact is guardianship is
an important valuable tool and here is
how it works basically let's say an
elderly person who lives alone is
showing signs of dementia any concerns
person could petition the court which
might decide to appoint a guardian to
help them make important decisions that
Guardian could be a family member or if
there is no family or if the families
fighting the court might appoint a
private Guardian a professional who is
paid to manage their affairs and when
this system works it's great but it
probably won't surprise you that that is
not what this story is about that's
simply not what we do on I just wanted
to watch a comedy show and go to sleep
but now I'm sad with Johnny joy killing
because because let me show you what can
happen when guardianship goes wrong take
the case of Rudy and Rennie North they
were living together happily in Las
Vegas when one day there was a knock on
their door and not let Rudy take it from
here so I opened door and they said that
they were officers of the court Rudy
says the officers gave the couple three
options one we call the police
- we have you go to a psychiatric ward
choice 3 an assisted living facility
well that is three terrible options
there it's like playing marry kill
with the chipmunks none of them none of
that from any other I'll kill myself I'm
taking the easy way out but but it is
true there was a knock on the North's
door and they were suddenly moved to a
facility by a woman they had never met
before who was given control of them by
a judge who they had also never met and
by the time they got out from under that
Guardians control two years later most
of their money was gone something that
Rudy is still understandably furious
about they're strippers they strip your
clothes they strip everything from you
we have nothing left no money no assets
nothing
nothing left and you know what I really
feel for him although I also must defend
strippers here because they get rid of
their own clothes not somebody else's
because somebody walks around getting
rid of other people's clothes is either
a criminal or tan France from the reboot
of queer
so so tonight let's talk about our
system of guardianship and the first
thing you should know is that far more
people are under it than you may think
one study estimated the figure to be
around 1.3 million people and and the
next thing you should know is that
guardians can have a huge amount of
power over people under their care or
their wards now because they may have to
make financial and health decisions they
can have access to everything from wards
bank accounts to their health records
and as for the wards themselves they can
lose a lot of their rights from being
able to vote in elections to being able
to get married so this is no small thing
as one judge who Awards guardianship
will tell you guardianship is a massive
intrusion into a person's life they lose
a lot of rights in fact they lose more
rights than someone who goes to prison
less rights than someone in prison that
is pretty shocking basically the only
things that you do have the right to do
in prison are sleep eat workout and
occasionally play backgammon with Phil
Spector he's he's really good at it it's
all he does now he's finished with the
killing that was that was just a phase
for Phil and the fact that Guardians
gained control of their wards finances
is where things can get problematic
because private guardians can bill for
each individual service they provide
from leaving voice messages to just
opening the mail and it can take payment
directly out of their Ward's estate and
those charges can accumulate fast and
sometimes seem ridiculous for instance
the family of a woman named Marie long
objected to her Guardians taking her on
a weirdly expensive outing just look at
what Sun Valley charged morita sent her
and their worker to a Phoenix Suns
basketball game over $1,000 for research
phone calls a limo Sun Valley even
charged Marie 228 dollars to determine
the effect of the game on her mood
exactly they charged her 228 dollars to
figure out how a Phoenix Suns game
affected her mood which is absurd
because I'll tell you that for free it
was a Phoenix Suns game it made her sad
try it yourself go to a game and see if
it improves your mood to see dragon
bender put up four points and one and a
half rebounds
spoiler alert it won't and I went Rudy
and Reni's Guardian a woman named April
parks was confronted over some of what
she charged them for she didn't exactly
stand her ground Rudy and Reni were
charged seven hundred eighty dollars
each for court filings and travel time
to court on the same days in 2013
that's over fifteen hundred dollars
you're absolutely right couple you're
absolutely right who you're saying
doesn't even have enough money already
will happily reverse those out those
charges out how about $108 parks charged
ready to buy her a pair of stretch pants
does 108 bucks for stretch pants no it
doesn't and and I'm happy to reverse
that yep but you can't just do a bunch
of shitty things and then say I'll
reverse it this is someone's life not a
Missy Elliott song although in
fairness you do probably need good
stretch pants if you're going to put
your thing down flip it and reverse it
the only ones who had questions about
April parks is bully practices she had
up to 800 wards at a single time and in
a court case involving a different Ward
a curious fact emerged parks was a
no-show in court but her voice was heard
through her own financial records which
are almost laughable some days were over
a hundred hours of billing that's not
physically possible yeah a hundred hours
a day is not physically possible unless
she was working on the planet Mercury
whereas we all know each day last 1400
and 7 earth hours I'll be honest that's
a joke exclusively designed for Neil
deGrasse Tyson so I do hope you enjoyed
it dr. Tarr think is absolutely nobody
else it actually out of interest
did you enjoy yeah but the time you gave
was the rotation rate of mercury that's
not the same thing as a day a day on
Mercury would be from sunrise to sunrise
of course and on Mercury that lasts
three times longer than what you just
gave
shut up Neil shut up what drive to ruin
everything
just enjoy something for once in your
life what is wrong with you you
feckless
I'll never mind it's not working it's
not working
bad idea boxes Cavalier approach through
her wards continued even after some of
them died because when this guy this guy
here bought a storage unit at auction
you will never guess what he found 27
urns 27 sets of different ashes some a
few years old others from the early
2000s somebody had the gall to store a
family member in a storage unit like
that that's somebody according to Valley
funeral home directors was this woman
April Parkes it's true she just left
earns full of other people's family
members in a storage unit and the only
way that could have been in worse taste
was if she poured them into a pinata for
a nine year olds birthday party
happy birthday Matthew knives of fun age
now now Parks was eventually arrested
not for the urn thing by the way which
was completely legal and she is
currently facing trial on over 200
felony charges including racketeering
theft exploitation and perjury but
you're probably wondering well how did
she even get so many wards in the first
place why didn't the Federal Bureau of
Guardian oversight step in to stop her
well that's mainly because that agency
doesn't exist we just made it up and the
fact that one of the symbols on that
logo was just Harvey Keitel's face
should have really been a giveaway for
you the fact is though guardianship is
the responsibility of state and local
courts meeting in most places everything
about it from who becomes one to who
they oversee to what they can charge is
up to local judges who may be elected
and may have no legal training for
instance in much of Texas guardianship
decisions are made by county judges and
only 29 of the judges in those 211
counties are lawyers the rest as one
judge put it off farmers car dealers and
insurance salesmen and those courts can
be so overworked they do not have the
resources to monitor cases properly when
Texas recently audited their
guardianship they found that over 3,000
wards had died without the court knowing
and are they alive or dead is the
absolutely least you should know about
someone under your care if a zookeeper
didn't know that 3,000 of his animals
were dead you'd put someone else in
charge of that Zoo or the very
least rebranded as an open-air exotic
meat market and on top of all this only
12 states require professional Guardians
to be certified at all so just about
anyone can become one and when the
Government Accountability Office looked
into this a few years ago their findings
were truly troubling most jobs handling
even small amounts of cash requires some
sort of criminal background check and or
a credit check
but the GAO found in most cases
guardians for the elderly can handle
millions of dollars and states have
failed to require either and it's like
putting the you know Fox and chicken
coop basically and of course they're
going to steal money exactly although I
will say not every Fox is out to steal
from you that's just an offensive
stereotype based on Swiper from Dora the
Explorer it's not all Fox's hash tag not
all foxes actually you know now I'm
looking at this that also says note all
foxes but I do agree with that as well
at all fox would be very very scary and
awareness must be raised hashtag denote
all foxes and all of these lack of
oversight is worrying in a system that
can be easy to fall into and very
difficult to get out of remember it took
Rudy and Renny nearly two years to get
out from under April parks and it was
not easy
although luckily for them Rudy was
pretty determined we're going to pursue
it all their way and we're going for
their balls just so they know it's their
balls where you want okay okay that's
fine
Rudi's seems determined and he also
seems like the first person in human
history actually interested in balls
because generally balls are to the human
body what stars is to a cable package it
comes with it we understand that but
it's not nice to look at and nobody
really knows what to do with it and
again okay I am NOT saying that
guardianship as a system is inherently
bad there are people who need it and
there are going to be more of them as
the silver tsunami approaches but that
is all the more reason for us to improve
its checks and balances from greater
regulation to more funding for oversight
and on the personal level there are
steps that everyone can take to avoid
being taken advantage of in the future
most experts tell us it is important to
have honest conversations with your
family and I know that sounds like a
nightmare but where you have to
have these conversations about about how
you want to you and your finances to be
taken care of should the need arise that
will help prevent a court from having to
step in and appointing a private
Guardian that could turn out to be an
April Parkes plus there are some
concrete legal steps that you can take
and I know that if you're a little older
you may not want to hear advice from a
fresh-faced holy-shit is he really only
41 year old so so we've we've actually
enlisted some help to get the message
across look we all get old eventually
it's just part of life and someday you
will too obviously you won't age as well
as us we're glamorous celebrities with
access to skin care technology but won't
be on the market for decades
look how supple my cheeks are you might
not age at all you might die tonight
young by getting hit by lightening or
eating too many Tide Pods or getting
killed by a hippo
that's actually a lot more likely than
you think they kill hundreds of people
each year oh you think they're cute oh
they're killing machines
hippos are terrible but we're not here
to talk about hippos
I am meet you I love hippos what do you
need we're not talking about hippos I
thought this was a whole hippo thing
getting older can mean needing someone
to help look after you and your affairs
you should make sure that that's someone
you know and not some random person
you've never met who just wants to spend
all your money on stretch pants
that's why it's important to select
someone to serve as your health care
representative and someone who can make
decisions for you under a durable power
of attorney named people you trust like
your son or daughter Oh close friend or
mr. Tom Hanks Tom Hanks is the best it's
a nice boy Jimmy Stewart would have been
my go-to guy but that was in the past
just make sure they're people you'd be
comfortable with making financial or
health decisions on your behalf I hereby
make Tom Hanks mr. Tom Jefferson Hanks
my health care representative if
clipboard I felt they signed yours truly
done I remember to always share these
documents with your friends and family
and discuss your plans so everyone's on
the same page and even if this feels far
off you've got to start planning for the
future now now now now now also hippos
are killing machines that's the real
message here hippos hippos
hippos what is wrong with you
people
you